state   input   response    next
1   "coffin"    "Eh? What coffin d'you mean?"   1
1   "william"    "xxx"   2
2   "coffin"    "The old man stares at you suspiciously. 'William was buried in the family crypt, at his mother's request, so he was; what're you getting at?'"    3
2   "william"   "'All I care to tell of that tragedy, I've told,' the old man says quietly, not looking at you. 'I've no wish to speak of it again.'"   2
3   "coffin"    "'I told you about that already,' snaps the old man. 'Why don't you leave me alone?'"    3
3   "william"   "'All I care to tell of that tragedy, I've told,' the old man says quietly, not looking at you. 'I've no wish to speak of it again.'"   3


inpu   state   response    next
"coffin"    1   "xxx"       1
"william"    1   "xxx"       1


crypt       william     response
1           0           "Eh? What coffen d'you mean?"
1           1           "Eh? What coffen d'you mean?"
1           1           "what're you getting at?"
2           1           "told you that already" (g)
2           2           "All I care to tell"


- 1
    - coffin: what coffin do you mean (back to 1)
    - william: (first william response) (2)
    - "what're you showing me that for?" (back to 1)

- 2
    - coffin: what're you getting at? (3)
    - william: "all I care to tell" (back to 2)
    - skull: starts visibly (back to 2)

- 3
    - coffin: told you that already (3)
    - william: all I care to tell (3)
    - skull: final response



self

The old man sighs. "I was a doctor, once. I was a very good doctor. But that was before Edward, you
know. Little Edward and his..." His voice trails off to a whisper, but you could swear he mouthed
the word "brother".

anchorhead

The old man covers his face in his hands. "Not a town," he cries, "not a town -- a hive of BURROWING
INSECTS! A SWARM OF MAGGOTS, THEY ARE!" He looks at you slyly. "But they can't find me, when the
maggots come out. They can't find me in my hidey-hole."

river

You can't think of anything to say about that for the moment.

william / brother

The old man falls silent all of a sudden, and for a while he simply stares down at his hands, limp
and open in his lap. Then, drawing a deep breath, he begins to speak, and for the first time his
voice is steady, without the reedy whine of alcoholic craving.

"Ayuh, little Edward had a brother, so he did. And I know him. I know of William, so I do. I
delivered the child. Anna Verlac was his mother. It... it was... "

He leans over and grips your arm with a hand that is suddenly steady and strong. "It was her
father's poison seed, y'see. That evil bastard poisoned her womb and put a monster inside her. What
she gave birth to... it was... it wasn't... oh, God, when I held that... that abortion in the shape
of an infant, that thing with hooves for feet and its crown of writhing... when it looked up at
me... It looked up at me with its father's red-rimmed eyes." The old man shudders convulsively, and
it is a while before he can speak again.

"Anna and I decided between ourselves, we did. The... her child... it lived for a few years, but it
was sickly, and in pain, and it could never be normal nor healthy. She brought it to me... I was her
doctor, you see, I'd seen her through her child's birth, and she trusted me... and I put the thing
down, softly and without pain, and they laid it to rest in the family crypt.

"And Anna thanked me for it, so she did."

The old man falls silent again, and his wavering, bloodshot eyes wander once more out to sea. And he
is lost, once again, to the horror and pain of the memories that can only be silenced by drink.

anna

Tears stream unchecked down the old man's face. "Shouldn't have happened to the girl. Only
seventeen, she was, still a child when he... when that red-eyed monster took her... " His eyes
suddenly darken, his fists clench. "HIS OWN DAUGHTER, GODS FUCK 'EM! SHOULDN'T HAVE DONE THAT TO HIS
OWN DAUGHTER! GODS FUCK 'EM ALL!!"

mordecai

The old man shrinks away from you. "Not here!" he hisses. "Not anywhere! Never speak it!"

edward

The old man lets out a vicious cackle. "They got to him, didn't they? Maggots
got to him good. Got into his head. The maggots got into his head, eatin' at him
'til he had to crack it open to get 'em out. Poor boy." He shakes his head.
"Delivered him, I did. Pulled him right out of his mama. Him and his -- "
Suddenly he stops, and will say no more.

wilhelm

The old man screws his face up in confusion. "Don't know about that," he mutters.

flask

The bum perks up. "More whiskey?" he asks greedily.

crypt (xxx)

The old man stares at you suspiciously. "William was buried in the family crypt,
at his mother's request, so he was; what're you getting at?"

"I told you about that already," snaps the old man. "Why don't you leave me alone?"

> ask/tell man about skull

The old man frowns in confusion. "What are you talking about?" he asks.

"I don't know what you're talking about, so I don't," says the old man, but it's plain he's hiding
something. He tries to crawl away, but is plainly too weak, and settles instead for rolling over on
the mattress to face the other direction. "You're speaking gibberish. Go away."

The old man bares his teeth. "You can't prove it! You can't prove anything, so you can't!"

"I'll not listen to lies!" screeches the old man, clapping his hands to his ears.








>tell man about william

"All I care to tell of that tragedy, I've told," the old man says quietly, not
looking at you. "I've no wish to speak of it again."

>show skull to man

    BEFORE

The old man bats the skull away with an expression of disgust. "What're you stickin' that in my face
for?" he demands.

The old man starts visibly when you show him the skull. "What about it?" he mutters.

    AFTER

(first taking the animal's skull)
The old man grows sickly pale. He raises one hand, as if to ward off the sight
of the skull, deny the truth one more time; then his hand drops, and he sinks
down onto the mattress, groaning.

"Oh, it's true," he cries, "it's true, God help my lying soul. It was her father
who wished to kill the thing, not Anna -- kill it to make way for another, he
said, a 'more fitting vessel'. He wanted to try again -- Gods, the depth of his
evil -- after the way the first one came out, he wanted to try again!

"Anna came to me and asked for my help, and what could I do? What could I do? It
was her child, for God's sake, no matter what else it was, and she couldn't bear
to lose it. But we had to weigh the coffin down with something..."

He sits up, suddenly, fastening on you with a sick, pleading look.

"I've told you too much, now," he whispers desperately. "They'll know; the
maggots'll find out for sure. They'll find me; even in my hole, they'll find
me." He lets out an eye-wateringly pungent breath, "P'raps it's best they do.
I've spent so long drowning my sins, p'raps time's come to pay for them at last.
This won't do me much good no more," he says, holding up his little copper key.
"And yet..." He closes his fist around it again. "And yet, maybe there's a
way... they say there's ways to protect yourself, wards versus the Evil Eye and
such. " The old man stares greedily at the amulet around your neck. "Perhaps, if
I could get me one o' those..."

>give amulet to man
"Thank you kindly, Miss, you're a generous one, so you are," grins the old man
as he closes his grimy fingers around the charm. "And here y'are," he says,
tossing you the copper key. "I'll pray it does you good."

The old man staggers to his feet. "I'll be gettin' on, then," he says. "If I can
make away before nightfall, p'raps I'll be out of their reach before the maggots
come out." He wraps the leather thong around his hand and closes the charm in
his fist.

He turns to you one last time. "Don't let them find you," he says earnestly.
"Get out while you can. If you stay, they'll track you down eventually. It's the
blood. He can smell it, so he can. And he always returns to his blood."

He shambles off, up the riverwalk toward Town Square, his shadow dragging long
behind him. Looking to the sky, you realize that the sun is nearly set; you've
been talking to the old man for much longer than you thought, and it will be
dark soon.

    AFTER

    >give skull to man
"Don't show me again," the old bum pleads, looking away. "I've sinned enough; I don't need to be
forced to look on it, so I don't."

Your score has just gone up by five points.

////// The old man looks up at you with fawning admiration.

> (tell old man about william after he's talked)

"All I care to tell of that tragedy, I've told," the old man says quietly, not looking at you. "I've
no wish to speak of it again."

> show [

The old man stares at the trenchcoat blankly, not sure what you want him to do with it.


